- In this chapter we examined the lowest layer in the Internet protocol suite with which we are concerned—the link layer. We looked at the evolution of Ethernet, in terms of both its increases in speed from 10Mb/s to 10Gb/s and beyond, as well as its evolution of capabilities, including [[VLAN|VLANs]], priorities, [[Link Aggregation|link aggregation]], and frame formats. We saw how switches provide improved performance over bridges by implementing a direct electrical path between multiple independent sets of stations, and how [[Full Duplex|full-duplex]] operation has largely replaced the earlier [[Half Duplex|half-duplex]] operation. We also looked at the IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN “Wi-Fi” standard in some detail, noting its similarities and differences with respect to Ethernet. It has become one of the most popular IEEE standards and provides license-free network access across the two primary bands of 2.4GHz and 5GHz. We also looked at the evolution of the security methods for Wi-Fi, with the evolution from the relatively weak WEP to the more formidable WPA and WPA2 frameworks. Moving beyond IEEE standards, we discussed point-to-point links and the PPP protocol. PPP can encapsulate essentially any kind of packets used for [[TCP.IP|TCP/IP]] and non-TCP/IP networks using an HDLC-like frame format, and it is used on links ranging from low-speed dial-up modems to high-speed fiber-optic lines. It is a whole suite of protocols itself, including methods for compression, encryption, authentication, and link aggregation. Because it supports only two parties, it does not have to deal with controlling access to a shared medium like the MAC protocols of Ethernet or Wi-Fi.

See Also: 
- [[Bridges and Switches]]
- [[CSMA.CD]]
- [[Duplex Mismatch]]
- [[Link Aggregation]]
- [[Spanning Tree Protocol]]
- [[WoL]]
