- Remain cautious with functions accepting a `time.Duration`. Even though passing an integer is allowed, strive to use the time API to prevent any possible confusion.

-  Avoiding calls to `time.After` in repeated functions (such as loops or HTTP handlers) can avoid peak memory consumption. The resources created by `time.After` are released only when the timer expires.

- Be careful about using embedded fields in Go structs. Doing so may lead to sneaky bugs like an embedded `time.Time` field implementing the `json.Marshaler` interface, hence overriding the default marshaling behavior.

- When comparing two `time.Time` structs, recall that time.Time contains both a wall clock and a monotonic clock, and the comparison using the `==` operator is done on both clocks.

- To avoid wrong assumptions when you provide a map while unmarshaling JSON data, remember that numerics are converted to `float64` by default.

- Call the `Ping` or `PingContext` method if you need to test your configuration and make sure a database is reachable.

- Configure the database connection parameters for production-grade applications.

- Using SQL prepared statements makes queries more efficient and more secure.

- Deal with nullable columns in tables using pointers or `sql.NullXXX` types.

- Call the `Err` method of `*sql.Rows` after row iterations to ensure that you haven’t missed an error while preparing the next row.

- Eventually close all structs implementing `io.Closer` to avoid possible leaks.

- To avoid unexpected behaviors in HTTP handler implementations, make sure you don’t miss the return statement if you want a handler to stop after `http.Error`.

- For production-grade applications, don’t use the default HTTP client and server implementations. These implementations are missing timeouts and behaviors that should be mandatory in production.

