- Categorizing tests using build flags, environment variables, or short mode makes the testing process more efficient. You can create test categories using build flags or environment variables (for example, unit versus integration tests) and differentiate short- from long-running tests to decide which kinds of tests to execute.

- Enabling the `-race` flag is highly recommended when writing concurrent applications. Doing so allows you to catch potential data races that can lead to software bugs.

- Using the `-parallel` flag is an efficient way to speed up tests, especially long-running ones.

- Use the `-shuffle` flag to help ensure that a test suite doesn’t rely on wrong
assumptions that could hide bugs.

- Table-driven tests are an efficient way to group a set of similar tests to prevent code duplication and make future updates easier to handle.

- Avoid sleeps using synchronization to make a test less flaky and more robust. If synchronization isn’t possible, consider a retry approach.

- Understanding how to deal with functions using the `time` API is another way to make a test less flaky. You can use standard techniques such as handling the time as part of a hidden dependency or asking clients to provide it.

- The `httptest` package is helpful for dealing with HTTP applications. It provides a set of utilities to test both clients and servers.

- The `iotest` package helps write `io.Reader` and test that an application is tolerant to errors.

- Regarding benchmarks:
	– Use time methods to preserve the accuracy of a benchmark.
	– Increasing benchtime or using tools such as benchstat can be helpful when
	dealing with micro-benchmarks.
	– Be careful with the results of a micro-benchmark if the system that ends up
	running the application is different from the one running the micro-bench-
	mark.
	– Make sure the function under test leads to a side effect, to prevent compiler
	optimizations from fooling you about the benchmark results.
	– To prevent the observer effect, force a benchmark to re-create the data used
	by a CPU-bound function.

- Use code coverage with the `-coverprofile` flag to quickly see which part of the code needs more attention.

-  Place unit tests in a different package to enforce writing tests that focus on an exposed behavior, not internals.

-  Handling errors using the `*testing.T` variable instead of the classic `if err != nil` makes code shorter and easier to read.

- You can use setup and teardown functions to configure a complex environment, such as in the case of integration tests.