- Using `panic` is an option to deal with errors in Go. However, it should only be used sparingly in unrecoverable conditions: for example, to signal a programmer error or when you fail to load a mandatory dependency.

- Wrapping an error allows you to mark an error and/or provide additional context. However, error wrapping creates potential coupling as it makes the source error available for the caller. If you want to prevent that, don’t use error wrapping.

- If you use Go 1.13 error wrapping with the `%w` directive and `fmt.Errorf`, comparing an error against a type or a value has to be done using `errors.As` or `errors.Is`, respectively. Otherwise, if the returned error you want to check is wrapped, it will fail the checks.

- To convey an expected error, use error sentinels (error values). An unexpected error should be a specific error type.

- In most situations, an error should be handled only once. Logging an error is handling an error. Therefore, you have to choose between logging or returning an error. In many cases, error wrapping is the solution as it allows you to provide additional context to an error and return the source error.

- Ignoring an error, whether during a function call or in a `defer` function, should be done explicitly using the blank identifier. Otherwise, future readers may be confused about whether it was intentional or a miss.

- In many cases, you shouldn’t ignore an error returned by a `defer` function. Either handle it directly or propagate it to the caller, depending on the context. If you want to ignore it, use the blank identifier.
