- The [[DNS]] is an essential part of the Internet, and DNS technology is widely used in private networks as well. The DNS name space is worldwide in scope and is divided into a hierarchy starting with top-level domains ([[TLD]]s). Domain names can be represented in multiple languages and scripts using internationalized domain names (IDNs). Applications use resolvers to contact one or more DNS servers to perform lookup tasks against a [[Zones|zone]] database, such as converting a host name to an [[IP]] address and vice versa. Resolvers then contact a local name server, and this server may act recursively to contact one of the root servers or other servers to fulfill the request. Most DNS servers, and some resolvers, cache information learned in order to provide it to subsequent clients for some period of time called the time to live (TTL). Queries and responses use a special DNS protocol that works with either [[TCP.IP|TCP]] or [[UDP]]. The protocol also works with either [[IPv4 Address|IPv4]] or [[IPv6 Address|IPv6]], or any mixture of the two.

- All DNS queries and responses have the same basic message format that includes questions, answers, authority information, and additional information. Resource records are used to hold most DNS information, and there are many such types: addresses, [[MX|mail exchange]] points, [[PTR|pointers]] to names, among others. In the Internet, most DNS messages are carried using UDP/IPv4 and are limited to 512 bytes in length, but a special extension option (EDNS0) provides for longer messages and is required to support DNS security (DNSSEC).

- DNS supports some special features such as zone transfers and dynamic updates. Zone transfers (complete or incremental) are used to allow redundant slave servers to synchronize the zone contents with a master server, primarily for redundancy. Dynamic updates allow zone contents to be modified by an application using an online protocol. There are really two forms of this capability, one standardized by and used in enterprises and a nonstandard but very popular dynamic DNS capability that allows users assigned temporary IP addresses (e.g., on cable or DSL) to obtain a DNS entry so that services they provide can be found by name throughout the world.
