- Implementing program state through algebraic data types requires some thinking and produces longer code, but it allows you to minimize the number of states your program can be in and removes the possibility of having invalid states.

- Inheritance, dynamic dispatch, and the visitor pattern are often used in OO programming languages to implement sum types. The main problem with using inheritance to implement sum types is that it incurs runtime performance penalties.

- If you know exactly which types you want to sum, variants are a better choice for implementing sum types than inheritance. The main downside of **std::variant** is that it incurs a lot of boilerplate because of the **std::visit** function.

- Unlike exceptions—which should denote, as their name indicates, exceptional situations a program can find itself in—optional values and the expected class are perfect for explicitly stating the possibility of failures. They also travel across multiple threads and multiple processes more easily.

- The idea of having a type that contains either a value or an error has been popular in the functional programming world for a long time. This concept became popular in the C++ community after Andrei Alexandrescu gave a talk called “Systematic Error Handling in C++” at a 2012 C++ and Beyond conference (http://mng.bz/q5XF), where he presented his version of the expected type. That version of expected was similar to ours, but it supported only **std::exception_ptr** as the error type.
