- UDP is a simple protocol. The services it provides to a user process, above and beyond [[IP]], are [[Port Numbers|port numbers]] and a [[Checksum|checksum]]. It provides no [[Flow Control|flow control]], no congestion control, and no error correction. It does provide error detection (optional for [[UDP]]/[[IPv4 Address|IPv4]] but mandatory for UDP/[[IPv6 Address|IPv6]]) and preservation of message boundaries. We used UDP to examine the Internet checksum and to see how IP [[Fragmenting|fragmentation]] is performed. We also looked at other aspects of UDP: how it is used with path MTU discovery, how it impacts server design, and its presence in the Internet.

- UDP is most commonly used when the overhead of connection establishment is to be avoided, when multipoint delivery ([[Multicast|multicasting]], [[Broadcast|broadcasting]]) is used, or when the comparatively “heavyweight” reliability semantics of [[TCP.IP|TCP]] (such as sequencing, flow control, and retransmission) are not desired. It has enjoyed a growing level of use because of multimedia and peer-to-peer applications and is the primary protocol for supporting VoIP. It is also a convenient method for encapsulating traffic that must transition a [[NAT|NAT]] without introducing much extra overhead (only 8 bytes for the UDP header). We have seen this use for supporting an IPv6 transition mechanism ([[Teredo]]) and for aiding NAT traversal with STUN (see Chapter 7), and we will see it again where it is used for IPsec NAT traversal. One of UDP’s other major uses is for supporting the [[DNS]]. 
