- The IP address is used to identify and locate network interfaces on devices throughout the Internet system ([[Unicast|unicast]] addresses). It may also be used for identifying more than one such interface ([[Multicast|multicast]], [[Broadcast|broadcast]], or [[Anycast|anycast]] addresses). Each interface has a minimum of one 32-bit [[IPv4 Address|IPv4 Address]] address (when IPv4 is being used) and usually has several 128-bit addresses if using [[IPv6 Address|IPv6 Address]]. Unicast addresses are allocated in blocks by a hierarchically structured set of administrative entities. [[Prefix|Prefixes]] allocated by such entities represent a chunk of unicast IP address space typically given to ISPs that in turn provide addresses to their users. Such prefixes are usually a subrange of the ISP’s address block (called provider-aggregatable or PA addresses) but may instead be owned by the user (called provider-independent or PI addresses). Numerically adjacent address prefixes (PA addresses) can be aggregated to save routing table space and improve scalability of the Internet. This approach arose when the Internet’s “classful” network structure consisting of class A, B, and C network numbers was abandoned in favor of classless inter-domain routing ([[CIDR]]). CIDR allows for different sizes of address blocks to be assigned to organizations with different needs for address space; essentially, CIDR enables more efficient allocation of address space. Anycast addresses are unicast addresses that refer to different hosts depending on where the sender is located; such addresses are often used for discovering network services that may be present in multiple locations.

- IPv6 unicast addresses differ somewhat from IPv4 addresses. Most important, IPv6 addresses have a scope concept, for both unicast and multicast addresses, that specifically indicates where an address is valid. Typical scopes include node-local, link-local, and global. Link-local addresses are often created based on a standard prefix in combination with an [[IID]] that can be based on addresses provided by lower-layer protocols (such as hardware/MAC addresses) or random values. This approach aids in autoconfiguration of IPv6 addresses.

- Both IPv4 and IPv6 support addressing formats that refer to more than one network interface at a time. Broadcast and multicast addresses are supported in IPv4, but only multicast addresses are supported in IPv6. Broadcast allows for one-to-all communication, whereas multicast allows for one-to-many communication. Senders send to multicast groups ([[IP]] addresses) that act somewhat like television channels; the sender has no direct knowledge of the recipients of its traffic or how many receivers there are on a channel. Global multicast in the Internet has evolved over more than a decade and involves many protocols—some for routing, some for address allocation and coordination, and some for signaling that a host wishes to join or leave a group. There are also many types and uses of IP multicast addresses, both in IPv4 and (especially) in IPv6. Variants of the IPv6 multicast address format provide ways for allocating groups based on unicast prefixes, embedding routing information (RP addresses) in groups, and creating multicast addresses based on IIDs.

- The development and deployment of CIDR was arguably the last fundamental change made to the Internet’s core routing system. CIDR was successful in handling the pressure to have more flexibility in allocating address space and for promoting routing scalability through aggregation. In addition, IPv6 was pursued at the time (early 1990s) with much energy, based on the belief that a much larger number of addresses would be required soon. Unforeseen at the time, the widespread use of NAT (see Chapter 7) has since significantly delayed adoption of IPv6 by not requiring every host attached to the Internet to have a unique address. Instead, large networks using private address space are now commonplace. Ultimately, however, the number of available routable IP addresses will eventually dwindle to zero, so some change will be required. In February 2011 the last five `/8` IPv4 address prefixes were allocated from the IANA, one to each of the five RIRs. On April 15, 2011, APNIC exhausted all of its allocatable prefixes. The remaining prefixes held by various RIRs are expected to remain unallocated for only a few years at most. 
