- The special member functions are those compilers may generate on their own: default constructor, destructor, copy operations, and move operations.

- Move operations are generated only for classes lacking explicitly declared move operations, copy operations, and a destructor.

- The copy constructor is generated only for classes lacking an explicitly declared copy constructor, and it’s deleted if a move operation is declared. The copy assignment operator is generated only for classes lacking an explicitly declared copy assignment operator, and it’s deleted if a move operation is declared. Generation of the copy operations in classes with an explicitly declared destructor is deprecated.

- Member function templates never suppress generation of special member functions.




- **Default constructor**: Same rules as C++98. Generated only if the class contains no user-declared constructors.
- **Destructor**: Essentially same rules as C++98; sole difference is that destructors are noexcept by default (see Item 14). As in C++98, virtual only if a base class destructor is virtual.
- **Copy constructor**: Same runtime behavior as C++98: memberwise copy construction of non-static data members. Generated only if the class lacks a user-declared copy constructor. Deleted if the class declares a move operation. Generation of this function in a class with a user-declared copy assignment operator or destructor is deprecated.
- Copy assignment operator: Same runtime behavior as C++98: memberwise copy assignment of non-static data members. Generated only if the class lacks a user-declared copy assignment operator. Deleted if the class declares a move operation. Generation of this function in a class with a user-declared copy constructor or destructor is deprecated.