- [[Firewall|Firewalls]] provide a mechanism for network administrators to restrict the flow of information that may be harmful to end systems. The two major types of firewalls are [[Packet-filtering firewall|packet-filtering firewalls]] and [[Proxy firewall|proxy firewalls]]. Packet-filtering firewalls may be further separated into the stateful and stateless varieties, and they usually act as [[IP]] routers. The stateful variety is more sophisticated and supports successful operation of a wider variety of application-layer protocols (and might do more sophisticated logging or filtering across multiple packets in a packet stream). Proxy firewalls usually act as a form of application-layer gateway. For these firewalls, each application-layer service must have its own proxy handler on the firewall, but this does allow handlers to make modifications even to the data portion of the transiting traffic. Protocols such as SOCKS support proxy firewalls in a standardized way.

- [[NAT|Network Address Translation (NAT)]] is a mechanism whereby a relatively large number of end hosts can share one or more globally routable IP address(es). NAT is used extensively for this purpose but can also be used in conjunction with firewall rules to form a NAT/firewall combination. In this popular configuration, computers “behind” the NAT are allowed to send traffic out to the global Internet, but only traffic returning in response to the outgoing traffic is ordinarily admit- ted back. This presents a small problem for implementing services behind a NAT that is handled by port forwarding, which allows the NAT to pass on incoming traffic for a service to end hosts inside the NAT. NAT is also being proposed for helping the transition from [[IPv4 Address|IPv4]] to [[IPv6 Address|IPv6]] by translating addresses between the two realms. In addition, NAT is being considered for use within ISPs to further allay IPv4 address depletion concerns. If this happens on a large scale, it may become (even more) difficult for ordinary users to offer Internet services from their home networks.
